---
title: IrisCTF - ManyKeys
date: 2024-01-07 17:00:00
categories: [Ctf Writeups, Crypto]
tags: [ecdsa, dlp] # TAG names should always be lowercase
math: true
---

We are given a message and an ecdsa signature, and then we are allowed to provide a private key verifying such signature. Some additional constraints are imposed by sanity checks performed on the chosen curve. By chosing a suitable smooth curve we can solve the discrete logarithm and forge the private key.

## Challenge Description

The challenge itself is pretty straightforward; first of all, the server generate a new instance of `ecdsa` and uses it to sign a random message. The message, the signature and the public key are given to us:

```python
from ecdsa import SigningKey
import secrets
sk = SigningKey.generate()
pk = sk.verifying_key

message = secrets.token_bytes(16)
print("Hello,", message.hex())
sig = sk.sign(message)
print(sig.hex())

print("Here's my public key")
print(pk.to_der().hex())
```

Then we are asked to provide a new private key, that should respect some constraints. Most importantly, it must verify the signature generated by the server.

```python
print("What was my private key again? (send me DER-encoded hex bytes)")
der = bytes.fromhex(input(""))
sk2 = SigningKey.from_der(der)
vk2 = sk2.verifying_key

assert sk2.privkey.secret_multiplier * sk2.curve.generator == vk2.pubkey.point
assert vk2.verify(sig, message)
```

If we manage to send a valid private key, we get the flag.

## The main idea

The `ecdsa` protocol, as the name suggests, relies on the hardness of the discrete logarithm on elliptic curves. The default curve for the challenge is the [nist-p-192](https://neuromancer.sk/std/nist/P-192), which has order a prime `p` of 192 bits. On such curve, the logarithm is certainly hard. However, looking at the docs for [ecdsa](https://pypi.org/project/ecdsa/), we see that the function `SigningKey.from_der` accepts as input also custom curves. This suggests us the solution: if we pick a curve of smooth order (i.e. an order that is product of many small primes), we can easily solve the dlp using [Pohlig-Hellman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pohlig%E2%80%93Hellman_algorithm) and recover the secret exponent that generates a given signature for a given message.

Let's do some quick math. Using the notation of [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm), we are given the signature $$(r,s)$$ and the (truncated hashed) message $$z$$ (well, not exactly in this form, but we will see later that recovering them is just a technical detail). Now by definition, $$r$$ is the `x` coordinate of the image point $$kG$$ where $$G$$ is the generator of the curve we are using and $$k$$ is a random secret number used to generate the signature. If we can solve the discrete logarithm for $$(G, kG)$$ and recover $$k$$ then

$$ d = (sk - z)r^{-1} \bmod n, $$

where $$n$$ is the order of the curve. Now even if we cannot solve the discrete logarithm for the original $$G$$, we can craft a new smooth curve with a new generator $$G'$$, and solve the dlp for $$(G', kG')$$ where $$kG'$$ is the point on the new curve with `x` coordinate $$r$$. We then recover our $$d$$ and return as a public key the point $$dG'$$ together with our new curve. By construction, $$d$$ satisfies the equation of the signature and will hence verify it. 

> It is important to remember that we **do not** recover the original $$k$$ and $$d$$, as that requires to solve the dlog over `nist-p-192`; we get the $$k$$ and $$d$$ that satisfies the equation over our new curve $$E$$ by acting *as if* the signature were done on $$E$$ itself.
{: .prompt-warning }

## Chosing the curve

The problem thus boils down to generate a curve on which we can solve the discrete logarithm efficently. However, there are some constraints to take into account: naming $$n$$ the order of our curve:
- the `ecdsa` library checks that $$n$$ is 192 bits;
- it also checks that both $$r < n$$ and $$s < n$$;
- to get $$d$$ we have to compute $$r^{-1} \bmod n$$;
- our curve needs to have a point with `x` coordinate $$r$$ in the first place.

The first two problems forces us to find a 192 bits number that is at least close to the order of `nist-p-192 = 0xfffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffeffffffffffffffff`. The third problem can be circumvented if we use primes that are big enough; however, that basically prevents us from using small primes. We can quickly generate an order that is high enough using 25 bits primes in `sage`:

```python
n = 0
for _ in range(1000):
    F = [random_prime(2^25) for i in range(8)]
    nF = product(F)
    if nF.nbits() == 192:
        n = max(n, nF)
```

The discrete logarithm on a curve of this order can be solved very efficiently (we can solve it on each factor up to roughly $$2^{40}$$). Moreover the probability that $$r$$ is invertible $$\bmod n$$ is almost 1. Once we have picked the order, we can generate a curve with the given order using e.g. the [CM method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complex_multiplication) (I used a [script](https://gist.github.com/r98inver/ed6642b5feeab113ea4f819b90d45c1e) from a recent CTF). 

The last problem, i.e. finding a point corresponding to $$r$$, is still there. We can keep generating curves until we find a good one, but given that generating a curve is the slowest part of the whole solution, it is easier to fix the curve and run the script multiple times. For the challenge I fixed `E` defined by
```python
n = 6276143543861820483727463839341560530407857267943705851501
p = 6276143543861820483727463839188219026899943033009132843363
a = 5296955225935487309883406749464295692388622695644248960023
b = 2241562193734778251017160586152569075654284944460120904175
```
and usually got a valid $$r$$ in less than three attempt.

## Putting all together

There are two technical details left to cover: how to recover $$r,s$$ and $$z$$ from the server messages and how to DER-encode our curve. By reading the [source code](https://github.com/tlsfuzzer/python-ecdsa) of the `python-ecdsa` package used in the challenge, we can simply emulate the steps they do, eventually reusing some of their functions:

```python
# Recover signature parameters z, r, s from ecdsa format
def sig_params(msg, sig, pk):
    import ecdsa.keys
    def normalise_bytes(buffer_object):
        return memoryview(buffer_object).cast("B")

    h = pk.default_hashfunc(msg).digest()
    digest = normalise_bytes(h)
    z = ecdsa.keys._truncate_and_convert_digest(digest, pk.curve, True)
    r, s = ecdsa.keys.sigdecode_string(sig, pk.pubkey.order)
    return r, s, z

# Convert elliptic curve to ecdsa format
def ec_to_ecdsa(E, G):
    import ecdsa.ellipticcurve, ecdsa.curves
    
    a, b = E.a4(), E.a6()
    p = E.base_field().cardinality()
    Gx, Gy = G.xy()

    my_curve = ecdsa.ellipticcurve.CurveFp(p, a, b)
    my_gen = ecdsa.ellipticcurve.PointJacobi(my_curve, x=Gx, y=Gy, z=1, order=G.order(), generator=True)
    return ecdsa.curves.Curve("pippo", my_curve, my_gen, None, None)

```

To recap, what we do is:
- compute a smooth curve $$E$$ with generator $$G$$;
- get the signature $$(r,s)$$ and $$z$$ from the challenge;
- craft/recover $$k$$ and $$d$$ from the signature solving a dlog on $$E$$;
- send the new private key $$(E, d)$$ that verifies the signature.

> The full solution script can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/r98inver/cab8a0a20c55ad1dce53526b48f328d0).
{: .prompt-tip }

> After the CTF I've been told that the solution is much easier than this; you can just change the generator in a way that the signature equation is verified. This is described for instance in [problem 61](https://cryptopals.com/sets/8/challenges/61.txt) of Cryptopals. 
{: .prompt-warning }